README.md, before:

This git repo tracks a few of my personal config files for some programs.

# Contents

`.zshrc`
> My ZSH configuration, mostly based on [oh-my-zsh][]

` .zsh_bindings`
> My key bindings for ZSH. Mainly history-beginning-search and all that good stuff.

`.bashrc`
> .bashrc to enable color, read other files and so on

` .shellrc`
> Common configuration parsed by all shells (Bash and ZSH)

`.shell_public`
> Shell alias and other settings

`.gitconfig`
> Configuration for git including a few aliases

`.gitignore_global`
> Global gitignore list

`.hgrc`
> Configuration for hg

`.perlcriticrc`
> Disabling some rules for perlcritic

`.perltidyr`
> My thoughts about how Perl code should look like

`.pystartup`
> Enable history and load some common modules

`.tmux.conf`
> Use some key mappings from screen

`.vim`
> All my plugins and stuff like

`.vimrc`
> My vimrc (work in progress)

`.vimpagerrc`
> Lightweight Vim configuration for using Vim as pager

`xkb/`
> My keyboard layout (mix between qwertz and [Neo2][] which I later refer to as qNeo2).

[oh-my-zsh]: http://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh
[Neo2]: http://www.neo-layout.org/

# Shortcuts

Here are some common shortcuts that I use and which I configure in every program which makes sense and allows to do so.

The use of the shift modifier key is not explicitly written down (-> case sensitive).

Left hand only: Should be easy to use with the left hand, because it is often used during work with the mouse. For example switching windows or Ctrl+c to copy to the clipboard.

## Advises: Shortcuts done right

Here are some advices regarding shortcuts for programmers or UI designers which I would like to see implemented:

* Allow more than one shortcut for one action!
* Allow to reconfigure *everything*.
* Make it easy to track the configuration files (which contain the shortcuts) with version control. This also means not to store the shortcuts together with things that you don‘t want to track (like recent files or usernames and passwords).
* Do not reinvent the wheel!

Additionally, some thoughts (or personal wishes):

* Every application which works with text or has an text input field should support Ctrl+u in the way Vim does it. (I am often trying to delete the complete text in the URL Bar in Firefox with Ctrl+u … → Disabled action of Ctrl+u in firefox)

## Shortcut “Namespaces”

Which shortcuts should be used where? – Some thoughts …

* Shift+Super: Dedicated for AutoKey

    * Can also be used over RDP on Windows machines without interfering with MS Windows mappings of the Super key.

## Free shortcuts
List of free shortcuts (they may have a default mapping but there are better shortcuts for those actions so that the shortcuts are available to be mapped to a different action).

## Special keys
Key name      | Comment
------------- | -------------
Level5 Shift  | This key is in my configuration the <> button.
+             | Separator for keys
anything else | is either a usual key name or a regular expression to specify a range of keys

## Window manager (Gnome3)

Own shortcuts for the window manager should include the Super key which is normally not used by applications.

### GTK+

Shortcut      | Function                | Left hand only | Comment
------------- | -------------           | -------------  | -------------
Ctrl+U        | Enter Unicode hex value | No             |

### Navigation

Shortcut                              | Function                                  | Left hand only | Comment
-------------                         | -------------                             | -------------  | -------------
Alt+A                                 | Move window one workspace to the left     | Yes            | Currently not used, just defined to be consistent.
Alt+D                                 | Move window one workspace to the right    | Yes            | Currently not used, just defined to be consistent.
Alt+W                                 | Move window one workspace up              | Yes            |
Alt+S                                 | Move window one workspace down            | Yes            |
Alt+[Level5 Shift][special-keys]      | Switch windows                            | Of course      | Easier to reach than Alt-Tab
Super+j                               | Switch to next windows                    | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+k                               | Switch to previous windows                | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+d                               | switch workspace to vertical tiled mode   | Yes            | See [shellshape][].
Super+f                               | switch workspace to floating mode         | Yes            | See [shellshape][].
Super+g                               | switch workspace to horizontal tiled mode | Yes            | See [shellshape][].
Super+J                               | swap with next window                     | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+K                               | swap with previous window                 | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+m                               | minimize window                           | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+M                               | un-minimize last window                   | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+h                               | shrink master area                        | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+l                               | grow master area                          | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+u                               | shrink a slave area                       | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+i                               | grow a slave area                         | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+H                               | decrease window's width                   | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+L                               | increase window's width                   | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+U                               | decrease window's height                  | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+I                               | increase window's height                  | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+z                               | toggle window maximized state             | No             | See [shellshape][].
Alt+Super+j                           | go to workspace below                     | No             | See [shellshape][].
Alt+Super+k                           | go to workspace above                     | No             | See [shellshape][].
Alt+Super+J                           | move window to workspace below            | No             | See [shellshape][].
Alt+Super+K                           | move window to workspace above            | No             | See [shellshape][]. Could release Alt+[WASD]?
Super+a                               | bring window to front / send to back      | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+C                               | close window                              | No             | See [shellshape][]. Does not work. Not using it.
Ctrl-Alt+y                            | Switch to workspace 1                     | Of course      |
Ctrl-Alt+[Level5 Shift][special-keys] | Switch to workspace 2                     | Of course      |

[shellshape]: https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/294/shellshape/

### Sound and Media

Shortcut                                | Function      | Left hand only | Comment
-------------                           | ------------- | -------------  | -------------
Ctrl+Super+y                            | Volume up     | Yes            | Maybe other shortcut?
Ctrl+Super+[Level5 Shift][special-keys] | Volume down   | Yes            | Maybe other shortcut?

### System

Shortcut        | Function      | Left hand only | Comment
-------------   | ------------- | -------------  | -------------
Ctrl+Super+a    | Lock screen   | Yes            |
Ctrl+Alt+Delete | Log out       | No             | Not really used yet

### Typing

Shortcut      | Function                                            | Left hand only | Comment
------------- | -------------                                       | -------------  | -------------
Alt+Super+c   | Switch to next input source (e.g. qNeo2 and qwertz) | Yes            |

### Windows

Shortcut      | Function                        | Left hand only | Comment
------------- | -------------                   | -------------  | -------------
Ctrl+Q        | Close window                    | Yes            | If Ctrl-q does not work, defined in gnome-terminal by default
Ctrl+Alt+f    | Toggle fullscreen mode          | Yes            | If Alt-f does not work. Try to use Ctrl+Alt+f because it is more generic. Use Shift+Super+f to emit F11.
Ctrl+Alt+w    | Maximize window                 | Yes            |
Ctrl+Alt+s    | Restore previous size of window | Yes            |
Ctrl+Alt+a    | View split on left              | Yes            |
Ctrl+Alt+d    | View split on right             | Yes            |

### Custom shortcuts

Shortcut         | Function                                   | Left hand only | Comment
-------------    | -------------                              | -------------  | -------------
Ctrl+Super+s     | Launch program `x-terminal-emulator`       | Yes            |
Ctrl+Super+[1-9] | Launch custom program or script            | Yes and no     |
Ctrl+Alt+x       | `rhythmbox-client --play-pause`            | Of course      | Play or pause music
Ctrl+Super+x     | `rhythmbox-client --next`                  | Of course      | Play next music file
Ctrl+Alt+O       | Launch program `eject`                     | No             | eject removable media
Ctrl+Alt+c       | Launch [script][suspend-script] to suspend | Yes            |
Ctrl+Alt+v       | poweroff                                   | Yes            |

## GUI applications

### Windows and tabs

Applies for: firefox, gnome-terminal, Double Commander (not fully yet because some are not configurable)

For gnome-terminal, each shortcut requires additionally the use of the Shift modifier key.

Shortcut      | Function                                | Left hand only | Comment
------------- | -------------                           | -------------  | -------------
Ctrl+n        | Opens a new tab                         | No             | Easier to reach than C-t
Ctrl+tab      | Swtich to right tab, cicle through tabs | Yes            |
Ctrl+j        | Swtich to left tab                      | Not really     |
Ctrl+k        | Swtich to right tab                     | Not really     |
Alt+m         | Switch to tab 1                         | No             | See [Neo2 layer4][Neo2]. Maybe blocks the use of Alt+[a-z]. I hope that most applications use letters which would be on the left side of a qwertz keyboard.
Alt+,         | Switch to tab 2                         | No             |
Alt+.         | Switch to tab 3                         | No             |
Alt+j         | Switch to tab 4                         | No             |
Alt+k         | Switch to tab 5                         | No             |
Alt+l         | Switch to tab 6                         | No             |
Alt+u         | Switch to tab 7                         | No             |
Alt+i         | Switch to tab 8                         | No             |
Alt+o         | Switch to tab 9                         | No             |
Ctrl+[+-]     | Increase/Decrease (zoom) font size      | Nice to have   | Level 3 [Neo2][] plus and minus do not work in firefox. Using Level 4 once (which currently don’t work with gnome-terminal).
Ctrl+w        | Closes the tab                          | Of course      | Should be default in all program
Ctrl+q        | Closes the application                  | Of course      | Should be default in all program

### Firefox

I use [VimFx][] with a few modified and additional shortcuts …

### Double Commander (DC)

See the manual for the default shortcuts. I added my own which I think are more convenient (I left the original onces pretty much untouched):

Shortcut      | Function      | Left hand only                | Comment
------------- | ------------- | -------------                 | -------------
/             | Quick search  | Yes (maybe copy paste search) | Not used. Configured DC so that every letter typed will open the quick search.
ö             | Quick search  | Yes (maybe copy paste search) | Not used. Configured DC so that every letter typed will open the quick search.
Alt+Y         | Delete        | Yes                           |
Alt+X         | Rename        | Yes                           |
Alt+C         | Copy          | Yes                           |
Ctrl+o        | Copy          | No (alternative mapping)      |
Alt+E         | Symlink       | Yes                           |
Alt+Q         | QuickView     | Yes                           |
Alt+J         | MakeDir       | Not really                    | I suppose I will have to type a directory name then
Ctrl+J        | SortByName    | Nice to have                  |
Ctrl+K        | SortByExt     | Nice to have                  |
Ctrl+L        | SortBySize    | Nice to have                  |
Ctrl+U        | SortByDate    | Nice to have                  |
Ctrl+a        | MarkAll       | Yes                           |
Ctrl+A        | UnmarkAll     | Yes                           | Default behavior from Gimp
Ctrl+S        | RunTerm       | Not really                    | Like Ctrl+Super+s but with the current directory
Ctrl+l        | FocusCmdLine  | Not really                    | Was mapped to Shift+F2 but Ctrl+l is more convenient because it works be default in firefox. Overwrites CalculateSpace in DC.
Ctrl+i        | RenameOnly    | Not really                    |

Note: Double Commander works quite nicely together with [Neo2][] …

#### Free shortcuts

* Ctrl+s
* Shift+[a-z]

    Note: Does not work for all letters?

### Autokey

Here are the shortcuts I use to trigger [autokey][] actions.

#### Emitted keystrokes

The keystrokes are intended for the application and not to be trapped by the window manager.

Shortcut      | Function      | Left hand only | Comment
------------- | ------------- | -------------  | -------------
Super+v       | enter         | Yes            | Emit enter. If AltGr+v does not work (unfortunately AltGr can currently not be used in autokey).
Shift+Super+f | F11           | Yes            | Emit F11. Causes most applications to go in full screen.
Super+R       | Reload        | Yes            | Emits F5. Most applications will either reload or go to presentation mode.

#### ERP system Steps Ahead

This section describes some mapping which I added to make working with the ERP system [Steps Ahead][] more pleasant. I am relaying on an ugly hack to achieve this because [Steps Ahead][] (even in the current version 9.5.3) does not allow to remap or add shortcuts to actions which already have a default shortcut … So I use [autokey][] to do this anyway. It works the following: When autokey intercepts one of the following shortcuts it emits the shortcut on which Steps Ahead triggers the desired action.

Shortcut      | Function                          | Left hand only | Comment
------------- | -------------                     | -------------  | -------------
Super+S       | Clone dataset (copy and paste it) | Yes            | Emits Shift+F6 followed by enter (to acknowledge the „Do you really want to copy …“ dialog).

## Terminal programs

### Tmux

See [.tmux.conf][] …

### Vim

See [.vimrc][] (Folds *Key (re)Mappings* and *Bundles and plugins*) …

Use Neo2 bindings where possible. Don‘t use `$`, use Mod4+g.

## Shortcut “Namespaces”

* Use on key with modifiers for actions which might be used repeatable or
  toggle something like | in normal mode which toggles comments for the line or ❤ (Shift+Layer3Mod+w) which closes one window or split.

#### Free shortcuts

##### Normal mode

* Umlauts
* Shift+Space

<!-- links -->

[VimFx]: www.github.com/akhodakivskiy/VimFx
[special-keys]: #special-keys
[.vimrc]: /.vimrc
[.tmux.conf]: /.tmux.conf
[suspend-script]: https://github.com/ypid/scripts/blob/master/suspend-via-gnome
[autokey]: https://code.google.com/p/autokey/
[Steps Ahead]: https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steps_Ahead
[freerdp]: https://github.com/FreeRDP/FreeRDP

Commit message:

Optimized configuration. scrolljump behaviors a bit to jumpy for my taste. Testing this setting.

README.md, after:

This git repo tracks a few of my personal config files for some programs.

# Contents

`.zshrc`
> My ZSH configuration, mostly based on [oh-my-zsh][]

` .zsh_bindings`
> My key bindings for ZSH. Mainly history-beginning-search and all that good stuff.

`.bashrc`
> .bashrc to enable color, read other files and so on

` .shellrc`
> Common configuration parsed by all shells (Bash and ZSH)

`.shell_public`
> Shell alias and other settings

`.gitconfig`
> Configuration for git including a few aliases

`.gitignore_global`
> Global gitignore list

`.hgrc`
> Configuration for hg

`.perlcriticrc`
> Disabling some rules for perlcritic

`.perltidyr`
> My thoughts about how Perl code should look like

`.pystartup`
> Enable history and load some common modules

`.tmux.conf`
> Use some key mappings from screen

`.vim`
> All my plugins and stuff like

`.vimrc`
> My vimrc (work in progress)

`.vimpagerrc`
> Lightweight Vim configuration for using Vim as pager

`xkb/`
> My keyboard layout (mix between qwertz and [Neo2][] which I later refer to as qNeo2).

[oh-my-zsh]: http://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh
[Neo2]: http://www.neo-layout.org/

# Shortcuts

Here are some common shortcuts that I use and which I configure in every program which makes sense and allows to do so.

The use of the shift modifier key is not explicitly written down (-> case sensitive).

Left hand only: Should be easy to use with the left hand, because it is often used during work with the mouse. For example switching windows or Ctrl+c to copy to the clipboard.

## Advises: Shortcuts done right

Here are some advices regarding shortcuts for programmers or UI designers which I would like to see implemented:

* Allow more than one shortcut for one action!
* Allow to reconfigure *everything*.
* Make it easy to track the configuration files (which contain the shortcuts) with version control. This also means not to store the shortcuts together with things that you don‘t want to track (like recent files or usernames and passwords).
* Do not reinvent the wheel!

Additionally, some thoughts (or personal wishes):

* Every application which works with text or has an text input field should support Ctrl+u in the way Vim does it. (I am often trying to delete the complete text in the URL Bar in Firefox with Ctrl+u … → Disabled action of Ctrl+u in firefox)

## Shortcut “Namespaces”

Which shortcuts should be used where? – Some thoughts …

* Shift+Super: Dedicated for AutoKey

    * Can also be used over RDP on Windows machines without interfering with MS Windows mappings of the Super key.

## Free shortcuts
List of free shortcuts (they may have a default mapping but there are better shortcuts for those actions so that the shortcuts are available to be mapped to a different action).

## Special keys
Key name      | Comment
------------- | -------------
Level5 Shift  | This key is in my configuration the <> button.
+             | Separator for keys
anything else | is either a usual key name or a regular expression to specify a range of keys

## Window manager (Gnome3)

Own shortcuts for the window manager should include the Super key which is normally not used by applications.

### GTK+

Shortcut      | Function                | Left hand only | Comment
------------- | -------------           | -------------  | -------------
Ctrl+U        | Enter Unicode hex value | No             |

### Navigation

Shortcut                              | Function                                  | Left hand only | Comment
-------------                         | -------------                             | -------------  | -------------
Alt+A                                 | Move window one workspace to the left     | Yes            | Currently not used, just defined to be consistent.
Alt+D                                 | Move window one workspace to the right    | Yes            | Currently not used, just defined to be consistent.
Alt+W                                 | Move window one workspace up              | Yes            |
Alt+S                                 | Move window one workspace down            | Yes            |
Alt+[Level5 Shift][special-keys]      | Switch windows                            | Of course      | Easier to reach than Alt-Tab
Super+j                               | Switch to next windows                    | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+k                               | Switch to previous windows                | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+d                               | switch workspace to vertical tiled mode   | Yes            | See [shellshape][].
Super+f                               | switch workspace to floating mode         | Yes            | See [shellshape][].
Super+g                               | switch workspace to horizontal tiled mode | Yes            | See [shellshape][].
Super+J                               | swap with next window                     | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+K                               | swap with previous window                 | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+m                               | minimize window                           | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+M                               | un-minimize last window                   | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+h                               | shrink master area                        | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+l                               | grow master area                          | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+u                               | shrink a slave area                       | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+i                               | grow a slave area                         | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+H                               | decrease window's width                   | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+L                               | increase window's width                   | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+U                               | decrease window's height                  | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+I                               | increase window's height                  | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+z                               | toggle window maximized state             | No             | See [shellshape][].
Alt+Super+j                           | go to workspace below                     | No             | See [shellshape][].
Alt+Super+k                           | go to workspace above                     | No             | See [shellshape][].
Alt+Super+J                           | move window to workspace below            | No             | See [shellshape][].
Alt+Super+K                           | move window to workspace above            | No             | See [shellshape][]. Could release Alt+[WASD]?
Super+a                               | bring window to front / send to back      | No             | See [shellshape][].
Super+C                               | close window                              | No             | See [shellshape][]. Does not work. Not using it.
Ctrl-Alt+y                            | Switch to workspace 1                     | Of course      |
Ctrl-Alt+[Level5 Shift][special-keys] | Switch to workspace 2                     | Of course      |

[shellshape]: https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/294/shellshape/

### Sound and Media

Shortcut                                | Function      | Left hand only | Comment
-------------                           | ------------- | -------------  | -------------
Ctrl+Super+y                            | Volume up     | Yes            | Maybe other shortcut?
Ctrl+Super+[Level5 Shift][special-keys] | Volume down   | Yes            | Maybe other shortcut?

### System

Shortcut        | Function      | Left hand only | Comment
-------------   | ------------- | -------------  | -------------
Ctrl+Super+a    | Lock screen   | Yes            |
Ctrl+Alt+Delete | Log out       | No             | Not really used yet

### Typing

Shortcut      | Function                                            | Left hand only | Comment
------------- | -------------                                       | -------------  | -------------
Alt+Super+c   | Switch to next input source (e.g. qNeo2 and qwertz) | Yes            |

### Windows

Shortcut      | Function                        | Left hand only | Comment
------------- | -------------                   | -------------  | -------------
Ctrl+Q        | Close window                    | Yes            | If Ctrl-q does not work, defined in gnome-terminal by default
Ctrl+Alt+f    | Toggle fullscreen mode          | Yes            | If Alt-f does not work. Try to use Ctrl+Alt+f because it is more generic. Use Shift+Super+f to emit F11.
Ctrl+Alt+w    | Maximize window                 | Yes            |
Ctrl+Alt+s    | Restore previous size of window | Yes            |
Ctrl+Alt+a    | View split on left              | Yes            |
Ctrl+Alt+d    | View split on right             | Yes            |

### Custom shortcuts

Shortcut         | Function                                   | Left hand only | Comment
-------------    | -------------                              | -------------  | -------------
Ctrl+Super+s     | Launch program `x-terminal-emulator`       | Yes            |
Ctrl+Super+[1-9] | Launch custom program or script            | Yes and no     |
Ctrl+Alt+x       | `rhythmbox-client --play-pause`            | Of course      | Play or pause music
Ctrl+Super+x     | `rhythmbox-client --next`                  | Of course      | Play next music file
Ctrl+Alt+O       | Launch program `eject`                     | No             | eject removable media
Ctrl+Alt+c       | Launch [script][suspend-script] to suspend | Yes            |
Ctrl+Alt+v       | poweroff                                   | Yes            |

## GUI applications

### Windows and tabs

Applies for: firefox, gnome-terminal, Double Commander (not fully yet because some are not configurable)

For gnome-terminal, each shortcut requires additionally the use of the Shift modifier key.

Shortcut      | Function                                | Left hand only | Comment
------------- | -------------                           | -------------  | -------------
Ctrl+n        | Opens a new tab                         | No             | Easier to reach than C-t
Ctrl+tab      | Swtich to right tab, cicle through tabs | Yes            |
Ctrl+j        | Swtich to left tab                      | Not really     |
Ctrl+k        | Swtich to right tab                     | Not really     |
Alt+m         | Switch to tab 1                         | No             | See [Neo2 layer4][Neo2]. Maybe blocks the use of Alt+[a-z]. I hope that most applications use letters which would be on the left side of a qwertz keyboard.
Alt+,         | Switch to tab 2                         | No             |
Alt+.         | Switch to tab 3                         | No             |
Alt+j         | Switch to tab 4                         | No             |
Alt+k         | Switch to tab 5                         | No             |
Alt+l         | Switch to tab 6                         | No             |
Alt+u         | Switch to tab 7                         | No             |
Alt+i         | Switch to tab 8                         | No             |
Alt+o         | Switch to tab 9                         | No             |
Ctrl+[+-]     | Increase/Decrease (zoom) font size      | Nice to have   | Level 3 [Neo2][] plus and minus do not work in firefox (works nicely because the plus „p“ and the minus „ü“ are next to each other). Using Level 4 once (which currently don’t work with gnome-terminal. Using Level 4 plus and Level 1 hyphen for this.).
Ctrl+w        | Closes the tab                          | Of course      | Should be default in all program
Ctrl+q        | Closes the application                  | Of course      | Should be default in all program

### Firefox

I use [VimFx][] with a few modified and additional shortcuts …

### Double Commander (DC)

See the manual for the default shortcuts. I added my own which I think are more convenient (I left the original onces pretty much untouched):

Shortcut      | Function      | Left hand only                | Comment
------------- | ------------- | -------------                 | -------------
/             | Quick search  | Yes (maybe copy paste search) | Not used. Configured DC so that every letter typed will open the quick search.
ö             | Quick search  | Yes (maybe copy paste search) | Not used. Configured DC so that every letter typed will open the quick search.
Alt+Y         | Delete        | Yes                           |
Alt+X         | Rename        | Yes                           |
Alt+C         | Copy          | Yes                           |
Ctrl+o        | Copy          | No (alternative mapping)      |
Alt+E         | Symlink       | Yes                           |
Alt+Q         | QuickView     | Yes                           |
Alt+J         | MakeDir       | Not really                    | I suppose I will have to type a directory name then
Ctrl+J        | SortByName    | Nice to have                  |
Ctrl+K        | SortByExt     | Nice to have                  |
Ctrl+L        | SortBySize    | Nice to have                  |
Ctrl+U        | SortByDate    | Nice to have                  |
Ctrl+a        | MarkAll       | Yes                           |
Ctrl+A        | UnmarkAll     | Yes                           | Default behavior from Gimp
Ctrl+S        | RunTerm       | Not really                    | Like Ctrl+Super+s but with the current directory
Ctrl+l        | FocusCmdLine  | Not really                    | Was mapped to Shift+F2 but Ctrl+l is more convenient because it works be default in firefox. Overwrites CalculateSpace in DC.
Ctrl+i        | RenameOnly    | Not really                    |

Note: Double Commander works quite nicely together with [Neo2][] …

#### Free shortcuts

* Ctrl+s
* Shift+[a-z]

    Note: Does not work for all letters?

### Autokey

Here are the shortcuts I use to trigger [autokey][] actions.

#### Emitted keystrokes

The keystrokes are intended for the application and not to be trapped by the window manager.

Shortcut      | Function      | Left hand only | Comment
------------- | ------------- | -------------  | -------------
Super+v       | enter         | Yes            | Emit enter. If AltGr+v does not work (unfortunately AltGr can currently not be used in autokey).
Shift+Super+f | F11           | Yes            | Emit F11. Causes most applications to go in full screen.
Super+R       | Reload        | Yes            | Emits F5. Most applications will either reload or go to presentation mode.

#### ERP system Steps Ahead

This section describes some mapping which I added to make working with the ERP system [Steps Ahead][] more pleasant. I am relaying on an ugly hack to achieve this because [Steps Ahead][] (even in the current version 9.5.3) does not allow to remap or add shortcuts to actions which already have a default shortcut … So I use [autokey][] to do this anyway. It works the following: When autokey intercepts one of the following shortcuts it emits the shortcut on which Steps Ahead triggers the desired action.

Shortcut      | Function                          | Left hand only | Comment
------------- | -------------                     | -------------  | -------------
Super+S       | Clone dataset (copy and paste it) | Yes            | Emits Shift+F6 followed by enter (to acknowledge the „Do you really want to copy …“ dialog).

## Terminal programs

### Tmux

See [.tmux.conf][] …

### Vim

See [.vimrc][] (Folds *Key (re)Mappings* and *Bundles and plugins*) …

Use Neo2 bindings where possible. Don‘t use `$`, use Mod4+g.

## Shortcut “Namespaces”

* Use on key with modifiers for actions which might be used repeatable or
  toggle something like | in normal mode which toggles comments for the line or ❤ (Shift+Layer3Mod+w) which closes one window or split.

#### Free shortcuts

##### Normal mode

* Umlauts
* Shift+Space

<!-- links -->

[VimFx]: www.github.com/akhodakivskiy/VimFx
[special-keys]: #special-keys
[.vimrc]: /.vimrc
[.tmux.conf]: /.tmux.conf
[suspend-script]: https://github.com/ypid/scripts/blob/master/suspend-via-gnome
[autokey]: https://code.google.com/p/autokey/
[Steps Ahead]: https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steps_Ahead
[freerdp]: https://github.com/FreeRDP/FreeRDP
